welcome back to 100 foxnews.com live I'm
Jonathan hunt what is the secret service
prostitution scandal say about the
agency what does it say if anything at
all about the country and the leadership
of this country what does it say about
boys will be boys for answers to all
those questions we're joined by Laurie
Hanrahan PhD American University
professor joining us from a DC bureau
now Laurie has an opinion piece at
foxnews.com
all about this Laura let's start with I
guess the the biggest issue of those
does this say anything about the country
and the leadership of the country hi
Jonathan yeah thanks so much for having
me on by the way I love your rap I
watched that at the end of the show
maybe great I'll hold you to that
I think well you know I mean it's a sort
of cliche but every problem is an
opportunity and President Obama has an
opportunity here to demonstrate real
leadership on a critical issue and so
far he's not doing that and I find that
a little disappointing I think it's an
incredibly important issue as Senator
Grassley said we're lucky we found out
about it and it's widespread it goes far
beyond the Secret Service I mean this is
a problem now with almost every
government agency where you're seeing
sexual abuse and exploitation often
government employees doing child porn
sometimes on work computers and very
unpatriotic
johnathan and a real security risk so
can we really say that this is about the
president I mean I think everybody
looking at this scandal will probably
say were it not for this dispute over
how much this particular hooker was paid
was going to be paid we would never have
found out about it and that is probably
exactly what has happened on thousands
of Secret Service assignments because
boys will be boys unfortunately well the
Jonathan there are people like me and
many other great people working on this
issue who know that this happens across
government agencies on a regular basis
so it's it needs the scope needs to be
broadened beyond the Secret Service I
think the Inspector General's need to
looking at every government agency
government employees at the state level
there's an epidemic right now in America
of child porn child trafficking and too
many government employees are involved
in that so I think that people do know
about this and I think the president has
an opportunity to broaden the scope so
you're not saying it's specifically
political it's been going on for a long
time this is not about who is who which
the individual is sitting in the White
House at any particular time but this is
something where the president should
come out sort of swinging that's exactly
right I mean President Obama didn't
create this problem but it is now being
exposed and I believe it's reaching
epidemic levels under his leadership so
he does need to come out swinging and he
the more he marginalizes and says well
these are a bunch of knuckleheads I
think the worse it looks for him I think
this is a real opportunity for him to
take powerful leadership on a matter of
national security and and patriotism and
how do you deal with just the sort of
boys will be boys mentality is there a
way to deal with that Laurie other than
you know these sort of disciplinary
measures of forcing them out because you
can it's so easy to imagine this
happening again unfortunately but it is
easy to imagine it happening how do you
get in the head of these guys and make
them change their behavior well I think
it's called ending impunity Jonathan I
mean I think it's creating a culture
where we follow the US Constitution and
we follow the rule of law we take our
oath of office very seriously for
serving as a government employee you
don't find a lot of women doing this I
mean not that women don't but it's quite
rare and you know part of my research
has been the focus on this within UN
operations you find the same thing with
peacekeeping troops within UN operations
and it's unacceptable and it puts all of
us at risk yeah that's a that's a very
good point and and you you would say
that this is not this is not just about
its agents then hooking up with
prostitutes this is this goes toward the
perhaps even more serious subject of
child pornography etc you believe that
that that happens across the board as
well oh well absolutely I mean look
sexual exploitation and it
which is what happens when you use a
prostitute or you do child porn and it's
often quite linked you know that's the
domain of organized crime and I think
the number one security risk right now
for America and probably for
peace-loving nations around the world is
the scope of organized crime and the
bread-and-butter of organized crime is
profits from guns drugs and trafficking
right now so when our senior government
agencies there's a senior ice officer in
Miami who was just picked up and
arrested for child porn as I said in the
opinion piece that Fox published I'm
very grateful that you were willing to
sort of start to the dialogue the
national dialogue on this issue you type
in any government agency Pentagon State
Department Department of Education TSA
and then you put arrested for child porn
afterwards and you're gonna see many of
our government employees being arrested
for doing this child porn is is somebody
who is getting off on watching a child
be tortured that's somebody's child on
the other end of that screen and when
you're a government employee you're
being paid by taxpayer money and you're
doing that on government and computers
you're opening up the US government to
organized crime huh so it's it's a very
serious problem that goes far beyond
boys will be boys